1.3 What kinds of data can be mined ?
Classification : Phan loai, sap dat theo loai.<Chapter 58>

- 	Giống như các kỹ thuật thông thường thì data mining cũng có thể được ứng dụng đối với bất kỳ loại data nào miễn là nó có 1 ý nghĩa nhất định đối với ứng dụng mà nó hướng tới.
-	When mining relational databases, we can go further by searching for trends or data patterns. For example, data mining systems can analyze customer data to predict the credit risk of new customers based on their income, age, and previous credit information. Data mining systems may also detect deviations—that is, items with sales that are far from those expected in comparison with the previous year. Such deviations can then be further investigated. For example, data mining may discover that there has been a change in packaging of an item or a significant increase in price.
	Relational databases are one of the most commonly available and richest information repositories, and thus they are a major data form in the study of data mining.

-	If AllElectronics had a data warehouse, this task would be easy. A data warehouse is a repository of information collected from multiple sources, stored under a unified schema, and usually residing at a single site. Data warehouses are constructed via a process of data cleaning, data integration, data transformation, data loading, and peri- odic data refreshing. (Chapter 3 & 4 3rd)	

	Classification is the process of finding a model (or function) that describes and distin- guishes data classes or concepts. The model are derived based on the analysis of a set of training data (i.e., data objects for which the class labels are known). The model is used to predict the class label of objects for which the the class label is unknown

	Whereas classification predicts categorical (discrete, unordered) labels, regression models continuous-valued functions. That is, regression is used to predict missing or unavailable numerical data values rather than (discrete) class labels. The term prediction refers to both numeric prediction and class label prediction. Regression analysis is a statistical methodology that is most often used for numeric prediction, although other methods exist as well. Regression also encompasses the identification of distribution trends based on the available data.

- http://repository.cmu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1221&context=robotics
Logistic regression (LR)
LR is well-understood and widely used in the statistics, machine learning,
and data analysis communities
